 tags are the only items
on their line.  

     Each REUTERS tag contains explicit specifications of the values
of five attributes, TOPICS, LEWISSPLIT, CGISPLIT, OLDID, and NEWID.
These attributes are meant to identify documents and groups of 
documents, and have the following meanings: 

     1. TOPICS : The possible values are YES, NO, and BYPASS:
        a. YES indicates that *in the original data* there was at
least one entry in the TOPICS fields.
        b. NO indicates that *in the original data* the story had no
entries in the TOPICS field.
        c. BYPASS indicates that *in the original data* the story was
marked with the string "bypass" (or a typographical variant on that
string).
     This poorly-named attribute unfortunately is the subject of much
confusion. It is meant to indicate whether or not the document had
TOPICS categories *in the raw Reuters-22173 dataset*.  The sole use of
this attribute is to defining training set splits similar to those
used in previous research. (See the section on training set splits.)
The TOPICS attribute does **NOT** indicate anything about whether or
not the Reuters-21578 document has any TOPICS categories.  (Version
1.0 of this document was errorful on this point.)  That can be
determined by actually looking at the TOPICS field. A story with
TOPICS="YES" can have no TOPICS categories, and a story with
TOPICS="NO" can have TOPICS categories.
     Now, a reasonable (though not certain) assumption is that for all
TOPICS="YES" stories the indexer at least thought about whether the
story belonged to a valid TOPICS category.  Thus, the TOPICS="YES"
stories with no topics can reasonably be considered negative examples
for all 135 valid TOPICS categories.
     TOPICS="NO" stories are more problematic in their interpretation.
Some of them presumedly result because the indexer made an explicit
decision that they did not belong to any of the 135 valid TOPICS
categories.  However, there are many cases where it is clear that a
story should belong to one or more TOPICS categories, but for some
reason the category was not assigned.  There appear to be certain time
intervals where large numbers of such stories are concentrated,
suggesting that some parts of the data set were simply not indexed, or
not indexed for some categories or category sets.  Also, in a few
cases, the indexer clearly meant to assign TOPICS categories, but put
them in the wrong field.  These cases have been corrected in the
Reuters-21578 data, yielding stories that have TOPICS categories, but
where TOPICS="NO", because the the category was not assigned in the
raw version of the data.
     "BYPASS" stories clearly were not indexed, and so are useful only
for general distributional information on the language used in the
documents.

     2. LEWISSPLIT : The possible values are TRAINING, TEST, and
NOT-USED.  TRAINING indicates it was used in the training set in the
experiments reported in LEWIS91d (Chapters 9 and 10), LEWIS92b,
LEWIS92e, and LEWIS94b.  TEST indicates it was used in the test set
for those experiments, and NOT-USED means it was not used in those
experiments.

     3. CGISPLIT : The possible values are TRAINING-SET and
PUBLISHED-TESTSET indicating whether the document was in the training
set or the test set for the experiments reported in HAYES89 and
HAYES90b.

     4. OLDID : The identification number (ID) the story had in the
Reuters-22173 collection.

     5. NEWID : The identification number (ID) the story has in the
Reuters-21578, Distribution 1.0 collection.  These IDs are assigned to
the stories in chronological order.

In addition, some REUTERS tags have a sixth attribute, CSECS, which
can be ignored.  

The use of these attributes is critical to allowing comparability
between different studies with the collection, and is discussed
further in Section VIII.


  VI.B. Document-Internal Tags 

     Just as the  and 